A Learning Management System (LMS) is an online system or software which is used to plan, execute, and assess a specific learning process. In simple words, software used in eLearning programs and which helps in administration, documentation, tracking, and recording. Learning Management Systems are used to maintain online collaboration over the internet. Colleges and companies use them to deliver online training; corporates use them for training purposes, as well as for maintaining employee records. Some use them to offer courses that provide students access to education, and some others as an online system which staff use to support course delivery and provide online learning and blended learning opportunities for students and employees.

Purpose 
The main objective of Learning Management Systems is to enhance the learning process. A Learning Management System not only delivers content, but also handles registering courses, course administration, skill gap analysis, tracking, and reporting. Most LMSs are web based and are used in various educational institutes and companies to improve classroom teaching, learning methodology, and company records. They are used in various industries and scenarios like in financial services, compliance training, computer based training, online assessment, collaborative learning, application sharing, and so on. Some LMSs also include a performance management system which encompasses employee appraisal, competency management, and skill gap analysis.

The benefits of technology in organizations  
Geographically independent learning wherein employees have access to their learning accounts anywhere and anytime. This increases productivity and decreases downtime, both of which will eventually redound to the organization’s benefit.
Social learning can be increased, as a learning system can be designed with social learning elements, such as Twitter and Facebook being used as platforms for communication. Blogs, videos, and links can also be added to the system, thus expanding the students’ resources and making collaborative learning possible.
Engaged learning also increases, because the students have greater control and freedom over their lessons. This usually involves the opportunity to set their own pace (i.e., view, organize, and schedule their activities) while still complying with the deadlines.
Chat Conversation End
Type a message...



